absolutely none that hisb was
responsible for this attack which used
an Iranian weapon and was launched from
a portion of Lebanon controlled by
hisbah indeed hisbah has repeatedly
fired rockets at Israel since October 8
with Iran's support and backing flouting
Security Council resolution
1701 hisas attacks have displaced more
than 100,000 civilians
and no member of this Council should or
would tolerate attacks such as
these therefore we call on the security
Council to send an unambiguous message
to hisbah by standing with Israel as it
defends itself against hisbah repeated
attacks
second hisbah is not the only Iranian
back group in the region that has taken
advantage of the situation in Gaza to
undermine Regional peace and
security the houis are brazenly
violating international law with their
attacks on Commercial and Merchant
vessels in the Red Sea attacks that have
affected all of
us Iran's support for the houis clearly
violates the arms embargo in resolution
2216 and these attacks flagrantly
disregard resolution
2722 Iran's arming of terrorist groups
in Syria Lebanon and Iraq is similarly
destabilizing and contrary to efforts by
the security Council to deescalate
Regional
tensions colleagues Iran must abide by
the council's resolutions and failing
that the security Council must consider
additional measures to enforce its
resolutions to hold Iran accountable and
address repeated actions by its
terrorist proxies and partners that
threaten Regional peace and
security
third the United States was not aware of
or involved in the apparent death of
Hamas leader Ismael hania indeed we have
no independent confirmation as to
hamas's claims regarding his death
fourth and as secretary blinkin noted
earlier today it is best not to
speculate on the impact that recent
events May have on peace and Security in
the Middle
East a broader war is neither imminent
nor inevitable although the
opportunistic attacks by Iran and its
network of terrorist proxies and
partners across the region have
repeatedly brought us closer to a
regional
conflict for our part the United States
will continue to lead the way in
diplomatic efforts to end the war in
Gaza and reduce Regional tensions we
will continue to work hard to prevent a
broader Regional
war that starts as secretary blinkin
reaffirmed today with finalizing an
agreement for an immediate ceasefire
with the release of hostages in Gaza
as called for in resolution
2735 a ceasefire agreement is the shest
way to alleviate the suffering of the
Palestinian people and unlock the
possibility of broader stability and so
the United States will continue to work
in partnership with Egypt Gutter and
other Regional Partners to seek to
deliver an
agreement we have also made clear to all
the parties that we want to avoid an
escalation of fighting along the blue
line between Israel and
Lebanon we remain committed to a
diplomatic outcome to restore calm along
the blue line that would allow citizens
on both sides to safely return to their
homes again we believe that there is
still time and space for a diplomatic
solution we encourage members of this
council with direct influence over Iran
to increase pressure on it to stop
escalating its proxy conflict against
Israel and other
actors indeed every member of this
Council should call on Iran to stop
arming advising and financing terrorist
groups and to reign in the actions of
proxies and partners who threaten
Regional peace and
Security in this dangerous moment it is
imperative that we work together to
reduce tensions in the
region rest assured the United States
will continue to do our part and
appreciates the efforts of other Nations
who share our commitment to support
lasting Regional peace thank
you make sure to subscribe our channel
to get the latest news from alaz